# Response to Nieves et al.
Caroline McCain

Nieves et al were working to predict population globally. They aimed to do this using different geospatial covariates, such as built land and water. The countries used in their work were found in Southern Asia, Africa, the Caribbean, Central America, and South America. These regions were selected because they are going to be the most impactful on global population growth in the future.
Their work was done using a Random Forest modeling approach. This approach relies on combining decision trees with each other to make their predictive power stronger. First, decision trees are generated based on the data that is being used in the particular case. The decision trees in this example used geospatial data. Then the data is split off the tree if it is statistically not a good predictor. After data is split off, trees are combined to make their predictive power stronger. This cycle of growth and splitting is repeated until the tree reaches a criteria determined by the user.
Dasymetric is a way of displaying data that makes it more reflective. For example, maps are drawn in a way that their coloring represents the distribution of data. Dasymetric population allocation refers to the fact that within a geographic area, population is not likely to be distributed evenly.
In the work of Nieves et al., they found that the most important geospatial covariants dealt with urban and built environments, and then environmental variables. Specifically, buildings and other built features were best able to predict population. This makes sense, because many buildings are dwellings. What was interesting to me is the point they brought up about the importance of water. I had thought that water would be a really strong predictor becuase it has historically been important to the formation of cities and the development of industry. However, the authors of this paper pointed out the dual nature of water. While it can be an important resource, it can also pose potential risks. 
