# Response to Stevens
Caroline McCain, March 2

1. Today's reading discussed the Random Forest modeling technique. In this approach, a forest of regression model trees are grown randomly and are then refined by their best prediction indicator to get the final result. This technique takes larger scale population data and incorporates other spatial data to create higher resolution data sets. Population data is not symmetrically distributed over the area. Instead a dasymetric approach is takem. This involves interpreting spatial data that predicts populations and using that to make decisions about how to subdivide population. 

2. A machine learning algorithm is a series of steps used to complete a process in which the computer "learns" and makes predictions based on data that is input. This kind of data science method tends to be more accurate than traditional statistical analysis. This is because machine learning can be more flexible in understanding outlier data. Additionally, using machine learning techniques makes the modeling more adaptable. More data can be processed easily and the outcomes can be updated according to changes in patterns. 

3. The geospatial covariates used in this particular problem include night light cover, land cover and use, percipitation, roads, and waterways. The data that they represented covered whole countries, but could be subset to smaller adminstrative districts to improve accuracy of representation. Using this data is important for machine learning methods becuase having more data to feed into the algorithm increase accuracy of results. 

4. Having highly accurate population models and descriptions is important because of development goals. Development aid is often tied to population sizes and needs. If you are able to accurately map where individuals are located, you can more accurately distribute resources to achieve better outcomes. Having this data would also improve the scope of projects, because the population data is integrated with other development indicators.

5. Mongolia has incredibly low population density, including a minority of the population that is still to some degree nomadic. I think that having this population data would be most important in terms of building social support systems, such as schools and hospitals. Since there are few cities, it must be difficult to have access to these facilities. However, a difficulty with this is the fact that since these communities are so small, lots of facilities would have to be built to reach everyone. 
