# Response to Wardrop
Caroline McCain, February 17

A top-down approach to population mapping requires having full census data. In this method, full census data is attached to geospatial information layers and broken down into smaller grid cells. On the other hand, a bottom-up approach relies on microcensus data to build up information about a larger geographic area. Top-down approaches are more common in developed states where census data is relatively easy to find and is reliable. Bottom-up approaches can be beneficial when there is not a lot of easily accessible, reliable data. However, each approach does have its issues. When using a top-down approach, it can be difficult to match data and "zoom in" without losing clarity. Bottom-up approaches may have unreliable population data. The process of using microcensuses intends to estimate the population of a region by taking samples and extrapolating. This can even lead to incorrect measurements of population when coupled with geospatial information to add detail. As mentioned, top-down approaches are most accurate when they work off of complete census data sets. One example of this is the creation of grid-cell data sets when this approach to population mapping was taking off. Bottom-up approaches have been used to fill in the gaps, for example, in creating grid cell data sets in Afghanistan. Afghanistan is unable to carry out a full census due to insecurity and instability, so the bottom-up approach is able to provide best estimates. 
